---
layout: page
title: Who Am I?
subtitle: A Tech Geek Exploring the Field of Computer Architecture and ASICs.
permalink: aboutme
---

> "Jack of a few trades, Master in Computer Engineering" - Soumil Krishnanand Heble

# Draft
### History 
I was born in the year 1994 on May 2nd in the city of Mumbai (then Bombay). I was preschooled in Mumbai, Kindergarten at Sanskardham Nursery, Vapi and 1st to 12th Grade education at Smt. Sandraben Shroff Gnyan Dham School, Vapi.

As most kids, I was inquisitive at a young age, my father, a chemical engineer and a business man by profession always answered my questions be it How refrigerators work?, How are Plastics Made? etc. This was instrumental in deciding my future in science and egnineering.

During my school time I played football (soccer) and cricket but as time went by I switched to badminton. I also took part in Isshinryu Karate and I am a Brown III Belt Holder. My inquisitve nature made me take part in a lot of quiz events in school and I even represented my school and won several inter-school quizzing events. Quiz and Sports taught me the importance of team work. Sports naturally and Quiz because in a quiz team of two each of us was good at specific topics and it was easy for us to pick up new things in those topics.

My school, parents and my uncle played an important part in steering my career towards computer engineering. My uncle, an opthalmologist by profession, used computer for his work. Whenever we visited our grandparents home, my elder brother and me used my uncle's PC to play games like Dave, NFS II SE, miniclip games online and at that time little did I know the true potential of internet and computers. My school was on of the few during the time to introduce computers to lower grade classes. We were taught Microsoft Word, Microsoft Office, Logo, MS Paint, MS Access, Macromedia Flash, HTML and C++. I still remember the scoulding from my Computer teacher beacuse I veered off from the course and made short cartoon videos in flash. Computer was first brought into my home in the year 2001 and I stil remember the funky sound of dialup modem connecting to the internet and the pain of using 56kbps connection provided by BSNL (Government Telecommunications Provider in India) that required us to purchase a token for internet time and the phone calls were blocked during the period.

#### My Move Towards Electronics

I'm drawn towards activities that have tangible effects. This probably stemmed from my habit of taking apart electronics appliances and gadgets in my home as a kid (from 8th Grade) and my father's motto of knowing how to fix things by yourself. He still has his own toolset and fixes any minor electrical/mechanical repairs in our home. My father paid INR 300 a computer technician when anything went wrong and his only suggestion was to format the PC, so I learnt how to format a PC and also the in's and out's of PC hardware. When my home computer was purchased it has 256 MB Ram, Intel Pentium 4 Processor and ran Windows 98. In grade 9 (Year 2009), It became sluggish and the hardware requirements didn't comply to support the legendary Windows XP OS and it was a time to upgrade the PC. I proposed my father that instead of purchasing a prebuilt PC or hiring a technician lend me the money to assemble a PC. I was able to put together an Intel Core 2 Duo system with a 1 GB DDR2 RAM with Windows XP by that year Internet scene in India had also progressed and BSNL started providing 1 Mbps ADSL modem with simultaneous telephone usage.

I was introduced to electronics, theoretically in the 10th grade but my practical experience in electronics emerged because of a necessity. In India during the year 2009 bicycles with brake, turning and head lights became popular among school kids but they were expensive and I already had a pretty good bicycle. So instead of pressurizing my father to buy me a new bicycle I set out on a quest to make myself a bicycle light set and thanks to my habit of taking apart things, fathers tool set and spending hours at bicycle fixing shops I became adept in taking apart and putting together my bicycle. By the power of internet and a local electronics store and a bicycle store I was able to whip up my own bicycle light set powered by a dynamo that used a 555 timer, a few buttons and aluminium foil contacts for brake detection (It wasn't until the first year into my college that I completely understood how a 555 timer worked).

Something happens in your brain when you build something by yourself and look at it work. This excitement guided me to build my second electronic project in 10th grade of a single transistor FM bug. I did not know then, how transistors worked but I studied those things on the internet and talkingelectronics.com was my goto website for electonturics projects.

So this was a brief history of what made me inclined towards pursuing electonics engineering during my bachelor's degree. In the year 2012 I was admitted in the Bachelors program in Electronics and Instrumenation Engineering at the prestigious Vellore Institute of Technology, India. I graduated in the year 2016 with a CGPA of 9.23/10.00, ranked 9th in a class of 93.

#### College Years and My Move Towards Computer Architecture and Embedded Systems
Some of the hollywood movies like XXX, XXX had already primed my notion of the great college clubs that built rockets, robots, nano satellites etc. In the first week of college I started attending several extracurricular events technical quiz events were obvious but there was one particular event (Robotics 101 by roboVITics) and one particular person (Mayank Prasad) who nudged me towards embedded and computer systems. In that event we were taught to make a robot (basically a car with wired controls). Their next event was on line following robots and despite the popularity of arduino they started with AVR's ATMega 8 microcontroller board as the brains of the robot. Thought it was a learning curve this is what made me study the data sheet and made it interesting. I purchased a kit from the club and made my first autonomous robot that follows a line in the first semester. 

Then there were core committee member selection events for roboVITics club and I cleared the first round but was'nt able to get in but I was able to get into another club called TEC-VIT (The Electronics Club) as its core committee member by October of 2012, still in my first semester. This club has a lot of good seniors Akash Kashyap, Chahat Ahuja, Yuvraj Singh Rathore, Sarthak Ahuja, Dheeraj Mor, Prashant Agarwal, Mayank Prasad and many more. Though this club had a lot of good mentors they also encouraged self-learning which is what made my study 555 timers, learn PCB design, AVR programming, Adobe Photoshop and Arduino.

I was becoming good at PCB design and embedded system design so Mayank Offered me to work as a technical associate for maxEmbedded which is a blog that he started writing about electronics and embedded systems. I wrote a few articles about PCB design and conducted 3 workshops in the university about the same. I worked on a live project at maxEmbedded designing an SD Card CNC G-Code Loader.

I worked as a technical mentor and designed promotional posters for TEC VIT and served as the Innovation Head for a year where I conducted a few events and workshops on Arduino and PCB Design.

VIT is different from other colleges for good and bad reasons (compared to what I heard from my friends who studied at other colleges). One of the good reason was encouraging students to get hands on experience to augment the theoretical knowledge. VIT  has the best labs and provides after class access to these labs and encourages students to focus on utilizing pratical knowledge by conducting competitions and Makeathons.

#### My Time at IIT Hyderabad
I was always interested in pursuing Masters abroad in computer engineering but before starting I needed some time to learn the basics that I was unable to gain during my bachelors degree. While working at IITH I undertook online courses on CAO, Operating Systems and Linux Basics on edX and Coursera.

I was hired at IITH by Dr. P. Rajalakshmi to work on a joint project between the IITH and the University of Tokyo. Initially I worked on a Fringing Electric Field (FEF) sensor design (because I had a degree in Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering). Soon after the professor discovered about my skills in embedded systems design and I was tasked with working on porting the Contiki OS to the IITH Mote, an inhouse designed wireless network and IoT development platform. This is the task that taught me how to use git, read complex C code, using pointers efficiently, how a simple OS works, how a basic networking stack is implemented and how basic drivers are implemented. We were supposed to use these modules with solar harvested power and for some reason it was sucking about 10mA of current in its lowest power state. I had to track down the problem and solve it. The original design was based on the reference datasheet for the wireless transceiver IC used so I was tasked to redesign the board to solve the problem and add additional features such as access to more internal specialized hardware. I lead a team of 4 to deploy the network in an agricultural field to monitor crop growth environmental parameters.

This is a brief history of my life so far, I'll be updating it as time goes by.
